Identification of Seasonality

There are several ways to identify seasonal cycles in time series data.

First, if the seasonal pattern is very clear, you may be able to detect it in a plot of the time series (time = t on the X axis; X at time t on the Y axis).

Second, you can obtained a lagged autocorrelation function. For example, if each data point represents a measure for one month, and there is a 12 month cycle, a graph of the lagged autocorrelation function should show a relatively large positive autocorrelation at lag 12, with smaller peaks at lags 24 and 36 (if larger number of time lags are examined).

Third, you can set up a table in which you have the mean of all the X measurements obtained in January, February, March,… Dec. (This is a particularly useful way to present results if your audience is not well versed in time series analysis).

Fourth, you can obtain a periodogram (unsmoothed Fast Fourier Transform) or a power spectrum (smoothed FFT). (Data should be detrended prior to analysis.) A graph of a periodogram or spectrum is given in terms of frequency instead of period. A frequency of 1/12 cycle per year corresponds to a period of 12 months per cycle. However, if there are other frequencies (cycles) in your data, this may not yield a clear pattern.

Fifth, you can fit a harmonic function using sin(t) and cos(t) as predictors.

In most of these situations it is easy to obtain statistical significance tests.

If you want to remove seasonal cycles from time series data prior to doing other analyses, you difference scores at the time lag that corresponds to cycle length, i.e., Xt - X(t-12).

Regarding the existing algorithms documented in the literature, most of them can be categorized into two families:

    Fast Fourier Transform (FFT): The idea is extracting the local maximums of the spectrum to find the season period. But there some hardly avoidable pitfalls: highly sensitive to noise, when there are harmonics like time series with seasonal peaks
    Autocorrelation function (ACF): The goal is also to extract some local maximums but there are not the problems we have in FFT. In the other side, ACF is very slow.